
= SlimString - Ruby method to slim down UTF-8 character strings

== Summary

Module {SlimString} contains a single method of the same (but
snake-case) name +SlimString#slim_string+, which offers functionality
to "slim down" character String, such as truncating extra spaces with many
options you can select.
It fully takes into account *UTF-8 characters* like CJK Zenkaku spaces.

The full package of this class is found in
{SlimString Ruby Gems page}[http://rubygems.org/gems/slim_string]
(with document created from source annotation with yard) and
in {Github}[https://github.com/masasakano/slim_string]

== Description

=== How to use it?

1. Simply call it in a full path (it is extended and so you can call it in this way.

  SlimString.slim_string("\nabc\n\n", strip: false) # => "\nabc"
2. Include in your class/module (or top level), and you can use it without the module name.

  include SlimString
  slim_string("\nabc\n\n", strip: false) # => "\nabc"
3. Include it in +String+ class like and you can use it as an instance method.

  class String
    include SlimString
  end

  "\nabc\n\n".slim_string(trim: false) # => "\nabc"

=== Options

All options (aka, arguments) are Boolean.
The given string is processed in this order regardless how you do or
do not specify them.

+delete_newlines+:: (Def: false) Delete all new lines (\f\n\r\v) (maybe useful for Japanese text, unless more than 1 alphabet word are split across 2 lines).
+convert_spaces+:: (Def: false) Convert any sort of spaces (including new lines) into an ASCII space.
+convert_blanks+:: (Def: true) Convert all blanks (=spaces except kind of new lines) into an ASCII space.
+truncate_spaces+:: (Def: false) Truncate any consecutive spaces into one.
+truncate_blanks+:: (Def: true) Truncate any consecutive blanks into (the last) one.
+truncate_triple_newlines+:: (Def: false) Truncate 3 or more consecutive newlines into 2.
+delete_blanks+:: (Def: false) Simply delete all blanks excluding new lines (n.b., "a top" and "atop" are regarded identical.
+strip+:: (Def: true) Ruby strip; strip spaces including new lines at the head and tail.
+trim_blanks+:: (Def: false) strip blanks (but new lines) at the tail.
+trim+:: (Def: true) Trim the tail to strip any spaces including new lines at the tail.

== Install

This script requires {Ruby}[http://www.ruby-lang.org] Version 2.0
or above.  Also, all this library depends on {SubObject (sub_object)}[https://rubygems.org/gems/sub_object], which you can
find in RubyGems.

== Developer's note

The source code is maintained also in
{Github}[https://github.com/masasakano/slim_string] with no intuitive
interface for annotation but with easily-browsable {ChangeLog}[https://github.com/masasakano/slim_string/blob/master/ChangeLog]

=== Tests

The Ruby codes under the directory <tt>test/</tt> are the test scripts.
You can run them from the top directory as <tt>ruby test/test_****.rb</tt>
or simply run <tt>make test</tt> or <tt>rake test</tt>.

== Known bugs and Todo items

* None


== Copyright

Author::  Masa Sakano < info a_t wisebabel dot com >
Versions:: The versions of this package follow Semantic Versioning (2.0.0) http://semver.org/
License:: MIT

